Jenkins - updating Blue Ocean "Creating Pipelines"  text (#5588)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/blueocean/creating-pipelines.adoc

Blue Ocean makes it easy to create a Pipeline project in Jenkins.

> A Pipeline can be generated from an existing `Jenkinsfile` in source control, or you can use the link:../pipeline-editor[Blue Ocean Pipeline editor] to create a new Pipeline for you, as a `Jenkinsfile` that will be committed to source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate a Pipeline from an existing `Jenkinsfile` in source control, or you can use the link:../pipeline-editor[Blue Ocean Pipeline editor] to create a Pipeline as a `Jenkinsfile` that is committed to source control.
```

> control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

== Setting up your Pipeline project

To start setting up your Pipeline project in Blue Ocean, select the *New Pipeline* button at the top-right of the link:../dashboard[Blue Ocean Dashboard].

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/creating-pipelines/new-pipeline-button.png['New Pipeline Button',width=50%]

> If your Jenkins instance is new or has no Pipeline projects or other items configured, Blue Ocean displays a *Welcome to Jenkins* message box on which you can select the *Create a new Pipeline* option to start setting up your Pipeline project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Jenkins instance is new or has no Pipeline projects or other items configured, Blue Ocean displays a *Welcome to Jenkins* message box that allows you to select the *Create a new Pipeline* option to start setting up your Pipeline project.
```

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/creating-pipelines/create-a-new-pipeline-box.png['Welcome to Jenkins - Create a New Pipeline message box',width=50%]

You now have a choice of creating your new Pipeline project from a:

* link:#for-a-git-repository[Standard Git repository]
* link:#for-a-repository-on-github[Repository on GitHub] or GitHub Enterprise
* link:#for-a-repository-on-bitbucket-cloud[Repository on Bitbucket Cloud] or Bitbucket Server

=== For a Git repository

To create your Pipeline project for a Git repository, click the *Git* button
under *Where do you store your code?*

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/creating-pipelines/where-do-you-store-your-code.png['Where do you store your code',width=70%]

In the *Connect to a Git repository* section, enter the URL for your Git repository in the *Repository URL* field.

[.boxshadow]
image:blueocean/creating-pipelines/connect-to-a-git-repository.png['Connect to a Git repository',width=70%]

> You now need to specify a link:#local-repository[local] or link:#remote-repository[remote] repository from which to build your Pipeline project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now must specify a link:#local-repository[local] or link:#remote-repository[remote] repository from which to build your Pipeline project.
```

==== Local repository

If your URL is a local directory path beginning with a forward slash `/`, such as `/home/cloned-git-repos/my-git-repo.git`, you can proceed to select the *Create Pipeline* option.

> Blue Ocean then scans your local repository's branches for a `Jenkinsfile`, and commences a Pipeline run for each branch containing a `Jenkinsfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blue Ocean then scans your local repository's branches for a `Jenkinsfile`, and starts a Pipeline run for each branch containing a `Jenkinsfile`.
```

If Blue Ocean cannot find a `Jenkinsfile`, you will be prompted to begin creating one through the <<pipeline-editor#,Pipeline editor>>.

> Local repositories are typically limited to file system access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local repositories are typically limited to file system access are normally only available from the controller node.
```

`gituser@git-server-url:git-server-repos-group/my-git-repo.git`

Blue Ocean automatically generates an SSH public/private key pair or provides you with an existing pair, for the current Jenkins user.
This credential is automatically registered in Jenkins with the following details for this Jenkins user:

* *Domain*: `blueocean-private-key-domain`
* *ID*: `jenkins-generated-ssh-key`
* *Name*: `<jenkins-username> (jenkins-generated-ssh-key)`

You need to ensure that this SSH public/private key pair has been registered with your Git server before continuing.

If you have not already done this, follow these two steps.

. Configure the SSH public key component of this key pair (which you can copy and paste from the Blue Ocean interface) for the remote Git server's user  account (e.g., within the `authorized_keys` file of the machine's `gituser/.ssh` directory).
+
NOTE: This process allows your Jenkins user to access the repositories that your Git server's user account has access to. Refer to the link:https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-on-the-Server-Setting-Up-the-Server["Setting Up the Server"] of the link:https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/[Pro Git documentation].

> . When done, return to the Blue Ocean interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return to the Blue Ocean interface.
```
